# Lesson 1.4

## Concepts covered

- Lifting state
- Controlled components
- Props handling

## Observations

## Lecture talking points

### Lifting state

- Establishes state management in a parent component, where more persistent state is usually managed.
- an update handler is passed down to the child component where it is used to pass data changes back up to the parent.

### Controlled components

- Allows React to be fully aware of data in form fields at all times.
- Turns each input into a piece of managed state (useState)
  - Couples input value to a value then uses an update function tied to events on the specific field (usually onChange)
- Instead of having to grab all values from the form on a submit event, it can grab from the state which is a much easier, cleaner process.
- I call this sort of data "ephemeral"- it's important for user interaction while the component is present but i isn't until data is submitted or confirmed as complete in some other way, it does not have an impact on the larger app.
  - This way the larger picture of state management isn't muddied.
  - Also keeps temporary data out of other state management systems like redux

### Props handling

- props is an object full of properties (thus the name) passed from a parent to child component.
- destructuring in the child function's arguments allows the developer to grab at the values directly instead of having to reference it through dot notation.
  - serves as a reminder of what values are available
  - increases readability as there's less code to deal with

## Potential concept demo ideas

- Individual controlled fields vs entire form controlled via single handler
- multi-layered object destructuring (see road to react p72)
- grabbing additional properties using rest operator (see road to react p73)
- how to import and use ULID or UUID for keys instead of Date.now()

## Todo list instructions call-outs

## End of lesson app capabilities/features

- can add new todos to the list
- field clears out after each submit
- data does not persist across refreshes
