# Lesson 1.6

## Concepts covered

- Reusable Components
- Component Composition
- Imperative React
- Inline Handler

## Observations

## Lecture talking points

### Re-usable components

- allows for re-use of structural elements
  - List items
  - Cards
  - Articles
- easiest if items are structurally same and display same types of data
- re-usable components can be generalized enough to handle similar types of structural elements and be configured through props to handle specific implementation
  - text input field, password field, number input - each has a label, a value property, and probably an onChange prop. Types (password, text, date, etc) can be passed in as props to configure.

### Component composition

- wrapped much the same way as html- by placing the dom element/ component between the opening and closing tag of a component.
- `children` props provides a place in the component to outlet the elements placed between component tags.
- Very common pattern - used to fine-tune the structure of an app and also 3rd-party libraries to "wrap" components with their own functionality.

### Imperative React

- coding "how to do a thing" vs React mentality of "describing what you want" then allowing React to deal with how to get there.
- sometimes done to implement features from a 3rd-party library

### Inline handler

- Technique to bind a function prop to the scope of the functional component. This provides access to variables found within that functional component.
- avoids having to create a function in the component whose sole purpose is to invoke a callback from props.
  - `onClick={onRemoveItem(item)}` *`item` would be 'undefined'
  - `onClick={onRemoveItem.bind(null, item)}`
  - `onClick={()=> onRemoveItem(item)}` *more popular*

## Potential concept demo ideas

- Re-usable components
  - Identical items
  - abstracted items (various inputs, header + footer nav)
- Imperative 3rd party usage
- Mis-coded inline handler (looking for that undefined)

## Todo list instructions call-outs

- useRef needs more explanation

## End of lesson app capabilities/features

- field auto focuses on every new todo
- a button can remove individual todos
- input field can be used elsewhere if needed
