# Lesson 1.8

## Concepts covered

- Data fetching
- Data re-fetching
- memoized handlers

## Observations

- Course material makes use of useReducer (look at them dispatches) while the lesson instructions does not.

## Lecture talking points

- the whole codebase (references to item.title should NOT be changed to handle the API) should not change for the API. nly the entrypoint of the data which should map it to the "shape" used already. "Serialized"

### Data fetching

- setup varies between APIs. Some need authentication -developer key, secret, token, session token, etc. Some are open. Find API docs.

### Data re-fetching

- adding query parameters to fetch url

### Memoized handlers

- saves a the results of a function giving an argument(s). Acts as a "wrapper" around the invocation that looks at the argument. If the argument has been used previously, the memo will pass back the same value rather than invoking the function again.
- React has `useCallback` and `useMemo`
  - `useCallback` returns function when dependencies change (good for caching results of API calls with params)
  - `useMemo` returns the value of a computationally expensive function and does so when its dependencies change.

## Potential concept demo ideas

- JS memo alongside React useMemo
- salient useMemo, useCallback examples
- error handling (auth, dead connection, resource 404)

## Todo list instructions call-outs

- Suggest updating the API data as it is fetched rather than changing component code.
- Suggest stretch goals of saving new todos to Airtable.

## End of lesson app capabilities/features

- Todo list loads information from the Airtable API
- New todos show in app but do not get saved up to Airtable
