# Lesson 1.9

## Concepts covered

- 3rd-party libraries
- Async/await
- Forms

## Observations

- book talks about older browsers w/o mentioning HOW old
  - IE 11 end of life 2022
  - Chrome support from 2015 (v42)
  - Edge support from 2016 (v14)
  - Safari support from 2017 (v10.1)
  - FF support from 2015 (v39)
  - Opera support from 2015 (v29)

## Lecture talking points

### 3rd party libraries

- bring in code that can help with specialized or complex tasks
  - D3js, ChartJS, React Spring, Framer Motion, Dinero.JS, Math.js...
  - Research before using other's code. Consider:
    - Licensing (MIT, GPL, proprietary)
    - Popularity, community support
      - GH stars, weekly downloads on NPM
      - Forums, Reddit, Discord, Slack, Stack Overflow questions
    - Standing/known problems: GH issues
- React-specific libraries such as Router or React-Redux have their own components that wrap around portions of the application to give them context- basically access to their features.
- Common to have "services" set up outside of components to have libraries do specific tasks so that the logic stays separate from the component. (separation of concerns)

### Async-await

- I need to do more research into this section.

## Potential concept demo ideas

## Todo list instructions call-outs

- can alias "BrowserRouter" as "Router"
- **ALERT: Inaccurate instructions** React-Router `Route` does not accept child elements other than another `Route`. Existing jsx needs to be worked into an `element` property for the `Route` I did this with a function that returns the original jsx. It would be better to define a new component but I am withholding from doing that until I see how much the code base is used in the final classes.  
- Lessons are a WIP that leave you hanging. Would be interesting to scaffold named todo lists.

## End of lesson app capabilities/features

- All previous functionality still exists
- Can navigate to `http://localhost:3000/new` and see a test heading
